Add LSIF blog post (#230)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/code-intelligence-with-lsif.md

---
title: 'Code intelligence with LSIF'
author: 'Chris Wendt'
publishDate: 2019-12-01T00:00-07:00
tags: [
  "blog"
]
slug: code-intelligence-with-lsif
heroImage: https://about.sourcegraph.com/sourcegraph-mark.png
published: true
---

> Since the [last code intelligence update](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/improving-language-support-in-2019), we shifted our efforts from improving language servers (which are difficult to deploy and scale) to building [basic-code-intel](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph-basic-code-intel) (based on ctags and text search) in order to contribute to our early-2019 goal of increasing Sourcegraph adoption. Although basic-code-intel works out of the box, its limited analysis provides at best approximate and fuzzy code intelligence.

Reviewer: Two suggestions:
1. I think it would be worth elaborating on why we decided to stop focusing on language servers.
2. I am wondering if it would be better to avoid calling it "basic-code-intel" and instead stick to something more descriptive.

For example:

```suggestion
Since the [last code intelligence update](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/improving-language-support-in-2019), we have shifted our efforts away from improving language servers. We found that language servers were hard to develop due to the number of build and dependency systems per language, hard to deploy and connect to a Sourcegraph instance, and hard to make fast enough to meet our user's expectations. The Sourcegraph 3.0 release in February included [zero configuration code intelligence for the 20+ most popular languages](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph-basic-code-intel) based on ctags and text search. This has provided a much better default experience for Sourcegraph customers, but there is one limitation: results are imprecise unless a customer configures a language server.
```

> Now, we are working on a new way of providing code intelligence that’s both fast and precise. The idea is to use compiler frontends to precompute code intelligence data in a project-specific build environment then upload that data to Sourcegraph. This has a lot of benefits:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we are working on a new way of providing code intelligence that’s both fast and precise. The idea is to use compiler frontends to precompute code intelligence data in a project-specific build environment and then upload that data to Sourcegraph. This has a lot of benefits:
```

>   - Precision and correctness: code analysis is performed in the proper build environment for the project using the same compiler frontend as your normal build

Reviewer: I would add a `.` after all the bullet points since they are full sentences.

  - Fast: since the code intelligence data is precomputed, go to definition and find references are essentially table lookups
  - Precedent: this is how the largest software companies provide code intelligence to their employees

Here’s what the setup process will look like:

  - Add a step to your CI that runs on each commit or daily (depending on the repository size)
  - In that step, generate code intelligence data and upload it to Sourcegraph (this is similar to other build artifacts such as code coverage information)

What format is that code intelligence data in? We are using [LSIF](https://github.com/Microsoft/language-server-protocol/blob/master/indexFormat/specification.md) (Language Server Index Format), which is a graph of code intelligence information such as definitions, references, hover documentation, similar in spirit to [Kythe](https://kythe.io). The graph is comprised of vertices for each definition/reference/hover and edges that connect references to definitions.

To learn more, check out our lightning talk about LSIF from GopherCon 2019:

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fMIRKRj\_A88](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fMIRKRj_A88)

> In addition to the existing LSIF exporters that Microsoft has created for [TypeScript](https://github.com/microsoft/lsif-node) and [Java](https://github.com/microsoft/lsif-java), in the few weeks that we’ve been working on LSIF support we created new LSIF exporters for [Go](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go), [Python](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-py), and [C/C++](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-cpp).

Reviewer: The combination of "in addition to" and "in the few weeks..." sounds weird to my ear. 
I also think it would be nice to add a closing thought for the future.  Here is a rough suggestion (feel free to change the wording here and there):

 ```suggestion
We have found that developing LSIF exporters is much easier than language servers. (TODO(chris) elaborate on this? One-shot process to write data to file is simpler than implementing long lived server with complex API and LSIF avoids build and dependency system complexity). In the few weeks that we’ve been working on LSIF support we have been able to create new LSIF exporters for [Go](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-go), [Python](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-py), and [C/C++](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-cpp). Microsoft has also already created LSIF exporters for [TypeScript](https://github.com/microsoft/lsif-node) and [Java](https://github.com/microsoft/lsif-java).

We are looking forward to working with customers to start producing LSIF data in their build pipelines so that they can enjoy the benefits of fast precise code intelligence.

If you are interested to work on code intelligence at Sourcegraph, [we're hiring](https://hire.withgoogle.com/public/jobs/sourcegraphcom/view/P_AAAAAADAAADP_pY7jAAAXU?trackingTag=sourcegraphCodeIntelBlog)!
```

---
title: 'Code intelligence with LSIF'
author: 'Chris Wendt'

> publishDate: 2019-12-01T00:00-07:00

Reviewer: Date is wrong, can you update?

Author: Oops, fixed in https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/commit/ce3e9b814c7f97f1855a2b2929741b8e9d2a1cb4
